'\" te
.\" Copyright (c) 2007 Apple Inc. All rights reserved.
.\" Use is subject to license terms stated below.
.\"
.\" The contents of this file are subject to the terms of the
.\" Common Development and Distribution License v. 1.0 (the "License").
.\" You may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"
.\" You can obtain a copy of the license at usr/src/OPENSOLARIS.LICENSE
.\" or http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing <http://www.opensolaris.org/os/licensing> .
.\" See the License for the specific language governing permissions
.\" and limitations under the License.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY APPLE AND ITS CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
.\" PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL APPLE OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE
.\" LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR
.\" CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF
.\" SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
.\" INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
.\" CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
.\" ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF
.\" THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

.Dd Oct 15, 2006
.Dt ZFS.UTIL 8 
.Os "Mac OS X"
.Sh NAME
.Nm zfs.util
.Nd ZFS file system utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl m Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
.Ar device node
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl p Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
.Ar device
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl u 
.Ar device
.Pp
.Nm
.Op Fl n
.Ar device name
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
command supports the mounting, probing, and unmounting of ZFS file systems.
.Pp
Options:
.Bl -tag -compact -offset indent
.It Fl m Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
mount
.It Fl n 
set name
.It Fl p Ar mountflag1 mountflag2 mountflag3 mountflag4
probe for mounting
.It Fl u 
unmount
.El
.Pp
.Ar mountflags 
above are either:
.Bl -bullet -compact -offset indent
.It
.Ar removable 
or
.Ar fixed
.It
.Ar readonly
or
.Ar writeable  
.It
.Ar suid
or
.Ar nosuid  
.It
.Ar dev
or
.Ar nodev
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO 
.Xr diskarbitrationd 8
.Sh HISTORY
The
.Nm
command first appeared in Mac OS X 10.5 (Leopard).
